CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Cliffy

First off, thank you for considering contributing to cliffy. Here are a few
things you may find helpful.

### Get in touch

- ❓ Ask general support questions on
  [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/cliffy) (using the
  `cliffy` tag) or in the [chat](https://discord.gg/ghFYyP53jb).
- 👨‍💻 Use [issues](https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/issues/new) to report
  bugs, request new features and discuss your contributions.
- 💬 Discuss topics in the [chat](https://discord.gg/V8XpuHdzz2).

### Contributing to development

Before you submit your PR please consider the following guidelines:

- 🕶 Follow Deno's
  [style guide](https://deno.land/manual/contributing/style_guide#typescript).
- ✨ Make sure to run `deno fmt` before committing.
- 📄 [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) are appreciated.
- ⚙️ Test your changes locally with
  `deno test --allow-env --allow-read --allow-run --unstable`.

> If you need any help, feel free to ask!

Commit message:

chore(deno): add `deno.jsonc` config and use `deno task` (#413)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Cliffy

First off, thank you for considering contributing to cliffy. Here are a few
things you may find helpful.

### Get in touch

- ❓ Ask general support questions in
  [discussions]([issues](https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/issues/new)) or
  in the [chat](https://discord.gg/ghFYyP53jb).
- 👨‍💻 Use [issues](https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/issues/new) to report
  bugs, request new features and discuss your contributions.
- 💬 Discuss topics in the [chat](https://discord.gg/V8XpuHdzz2).

### Contributing to development

Before you submit your PR please consider the following guidelines:

- 🕶 Follow Deno's
  [style guide](https://deno.land/manual/contributing/style_guide#typescript).
- 📄 [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) are appreciated.
- ✨ Lint your code changes with `deno task lint`.
- 🪄 Format your code changes with `deno task fmt`.
- ⚙️ Test your changes with `deno task test`.

> If you need any help, feel free to ask!
