README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">❯ Cliffy</h1>

<p align="center" class="badges-container">
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Version" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github&color=blue" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions/workflows/test.yml">
    <img alt="Build status" src="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/c4spar/deno-cliffy">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/c4spar/deno-cliffy/branch/main/graph/badge.svg"/>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/issues">
    <img alt="issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/c4spar/deno-cliffy?label=issues&logo=github">
  </a>
  <a href="https://deno.land/">
    <img alt="Deno version" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-^1.4.0-blue?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/ghFYyP53jb">
    <img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/join-chat-blue?logo=discord&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="./LICENSE">
    <img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <br>
  <a href="https://deno.land/x/cliffy">
    <img alt="deno.land" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Published on deno.land-blue?logo=deno&logoColor=959DA6&color=272727" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://nest.land/package/cliffy">
    <img alt="nest.land" src="https://nest.land/badge.svg">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b>Command line framework for Deno</b></br>
  <sub>>_ A collection of modules for creating interactive command line tools.</sub>
</p>

> ⚠️ This project is still under development. Expect breaking changes.

## ❯ Modules

- **[ansi](ansi/):** Chainable ansi escape sequences to show, hide and move cli
  cursor, erase output and scroll window.

- **[command](command/):** Create flexible command line interfaces with type
  checking, auto generated help and out of the box support for shell completions
  (inspired by [node.js's](http://nodejs.org)
  [commander.js](https://github.com/tj/commander.js/blob/master/Readme.md)).

- **[flags](flags/):** Parse command line arguments.

- **[keycode](keycode/):** Parse ANSI key codes.

- **[prompt](prompt/):** Create interactive prompts like: checkbox, confirm,
  input, number, select, etc...

- **[table](table/):** Create cli table's with border, padding, nested table's,
  etc...

## ❯ Contributing

Any kind of contribution is welcome! Please take a look at the
[contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## ❯ License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat(keypress): add keypress module (#187)

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">❯ Cliffy</h1>

<p align="center" class="badges-container">
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Version" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github&color=blue" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions/workflows/test.yml">
    <img alt="Build status" src="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/c4spar/deno-cliffy">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/c4spar/deno-cliffy/branch/main/graph/badge.svg"/>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/issues">
    <img alt="issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/c4spar/deno-cliffy?label=issues&logo=github">
  </a>
  <a href="https://deno.land/">
    <img alt="Deno version" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-^1.4.0-blue?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/ghFYyP53jb">
    <img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/join-chat-blue?logo=discord&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="./LICENSE">
    <img alt="License" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <br>
  <a href="https://deno.land/x/cliffy">
    <img alt="deno.land" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Published on deno.land-blue?logo=deno&logoColor=959DA6&color=272727" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://nest.land/package/cliffy">
    <img alt="nest.land" src="https://nest.land/badge.svg">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b>Command line framework for Deno</b></br>
  <sub>>_ A collection of modules for creating interactive command line tools.</sub>
</p>

> ⚠️ This project is still under development. Expect breaking changes.

## ❯ Modules

- **[ansi](ansi/):** Chainable ansi escape sequences to show, hide and move cli
  cursor, erase output and scroll window.

- **[command](command/):** Create flexible command line interfaces with type
  checking, auto generated help and out of the box support for shell completions
  (inspired by [node.js's](http://nodejs.org)
  [commander.js](https://github.com/tj/commander.js/blob/master/Readme.md)).

- **[flags](flags/):** Parse command line arguments.

- **[keycode](keycode/):** Parse ANSI key codes.

- **[keypress](keypress/):** Keypress module with promise, async iterator and
  event target API.

- **[prompt](prompt/):** Create interactive prompts like: checkbox, confirm,
  input, number, select, etc...

- **[table](table/):** Create cli table's with border, padding, nested table's,
  etc...

## ❯ Contributing

Any kind of contribution is welcome! Please take a look at the
[contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## ❯ License

[MIT](LICENSE)
