packages/flags/README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Cliffy ❯ Flags </h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Version" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Release date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://deno.land/">
    <img alt="Deno version" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-v1.0.2-green?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3Aci">
    <img alt="Build status" src="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/workflows/ci/badge.svg?branch=master" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/labels/module%3Aflags">
    <img alt="issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/c4spar/deno-cliffy/module:flags?label=issues&logo=github">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3Aci">
    <img alt="Licence" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b> Command line parser for <a href="https://deno.land/">Deno</a></b></br>
  <sub>>_ Used by cliffy's <a href="../command/">command</a> module<sub>
</p>

## Usage

```typescript
import { parseFlags, OptionType } from 'https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags.ts';

const { flags, literal, unknown } = parseFlags( Deno.args, {
    allowEmpty: true,
    flags: [ {
        name: 'verbose',
        aliases: [ 'v' ],
        type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
        // allow to define this option multiple times on the command line
        collect: true,
        // make --verbose incremental: turn value into an number and increase the value for each --verbose option
        value: ( val: boolean, previous: number = 0 ) => previous + 1
    }, {
        name: 'help',
        aliases: [ 'h' ],
        type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
        // a standalone option cannot be combined with other options
        standalone: true
    }, {
        name: 'file',
        aliases: [ 'f' ],
        type: OptionType.STRING,
        // file cannot be combined with stdin option
        conflicts: [ 'stdin' ]
    }, {
        name: 'stdin',
        aliases: [ 'i' ],
        type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
        // stdin cannot be combined with file option
        conflicts: [ 'file' ]
    } ]
} );

if ( flags.help ) {
    console.log( 'print help...' );
}

```

## Options

### parseFlags Options

| Param | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | :--: | :--: | ----------- |
| allowEmpty | `boolean` | No | Allow no arguments. Defaults to `false` |
| flags | `IFlagOptions[]` | No | Array of flag options. |
| parse | `function` | No | Custom type parser. |

### Flag Options

| Param | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | :--: | :--: | ----------- |
| name | `string` | Yes | The name of the option. |
| args | `IFlagArgument[]` | No | An Array of argument options. |
| aliases | `string[]` | No | Array of option alias's. |
| standalone | `boolean ` | No | Cannot be combined with other options. |
| default | `any` | No | Default option value. |
| required | `boolean ` | No | Mark option as required and throw an error if the option is missing. |
| depends | `string[]` | No | Array of option names that depends on this option. |
| conflicts | `string[]` | No | Array of option names that conflicts with this option. |
| collect | `boolean` | No | Allow to call this option multiple times and add each value to an array which will be returned as result. |
| value | `( val: any, previous?: any ) => any` | No | Custom value processing. |

### Argument options

| Param | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | :--: | :--: | ----------- |
| type | `OptionType \| string` | no | Type of the argument. |
| optionalValue | `boolean` | no | Make argument optional. |
| variadic | `boolean` | no | Make arguments variadic. |
| list | `boolean` | no | Split argument by `separator`. |
| separator | `string` | no | List separator. Defaults to `,` |

## Custom type processing

```typescript
import { parseFlags, IFlagOptions, IFlagArgument } from 'https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags.ts';

parseFlags( Deno.args, {
    parse: ( type: string, option: IFlagOptions, arg: IFlagArgument, nextValue: string ) => {
        switch ( type ) {
            case 'float':
                if ( isNaN( nextValue as any ) ) {
                    throw new Error( `Option --${ option.name } must be of type number but got: ${ nextValue }` );
                }
                return parseFloat( nextValue );
            default:
                throw new Error( `Unknown type: ${ type }` );
        }
    }
} );
```

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat(flags): implement `stopEarly` option (#39)

packages/flags/README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Cliffy ❯ Flags </h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Version" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Release date" src="https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://deno.land/">
    <img alt="Deno version" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-v1.0.2-green?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3Aci">
    <img alt="Build status" src="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/workflows/ci/badge.svg?branch=master" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/labels/module%3Aflags">
    <img alt="issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/c4spar/deno-cliffy/module:flags?label=issues&logo=github">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3Aci">
    <img alt="Licence" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b> Command line parser for <a href="https://deno.land/">Deno</a></b></br>
  <sub>>_ Used by cliffy's <a href="../command/">command</a> module<sub>
</p>

## Usage

```typescript
import { parseFlags, OptionType } from 'https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags.ts';

const { flags, literal, unknown } = parseFlags( Deno.args, {
    allowEmpty: true,
    flags: [ {
        name: 'verbose',
        aliases: [ 'v' ],
        type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
        // allow to define this option multiple times on the command line
        collect: true,
        // make --verbose incremental: turn value into an number and increase the value for each --verbose option
        value: ( val: boolean, previous: number = 0 ) => previous + 1
    }, {
        name: 'help',
        aliases: [ 'h' ],
        type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
        // a standalone option cannot be combined with other options
        standalone: true
    }, {
        name: 'file',
        aliases: [ 'f' ],
        type: OptionType.STRING,
        // file cannot be combined with stdin option
        conflicts: [ 'stdin' ]
    }, {
        name: 'stdin',
        aliases: [ 'i' ],
        type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
        // stdin cannot be combined with file option
        conflicts: [ 'file' ]
    } ]
} );

if ( flags.help ) {
    console.log( 'print help...' );
}

```

## Options

### parseFlags Options

| Param | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | :--: | :--: | ----------- |
| allowEmpty | `boolean` | No | Allow no arguments. Defaults to `false` |
| stopEarly | `boolean` | No | If enabled, all values starting from the first non option argument will be added to `unknown`. |
| flags | `IFlagOptions[]` | No | Array of flag options. |
| parse | `function` | No | Custom type parser. |

### Flag Options

| Param | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | :--: | :--: | ----------- |
| name | `string` | Yes | The name of the option. |
| args | `IFlagArgument[]` | No | An Array of argument options. |
| aliases | `string[]` | No | Array of option alias's. |
| standalone | `boolean ` | No | Cannot be combined with other options. |
| default | `any` | No | Default option value. |
| required | `boolean ` | No | Mark option as required and throw an error if the option is missing. |
| depends | `string[]` | No | Array of option names that depends on this option. |
| conflicts | `string[]` | No | Array of option names that conflicts with this option. |
| collect | `boolean` | No | Allow to call this option multiple times and add each value to an array which will be returned as result. |
| value | `( val: any, previous?: any ) => any` | No | Custom value processing. |

### Argument options

| Param | Type | Required | Description |
| ----- | :--: | :--: | ----------- |
| type | `OptionType \| string` | no | Type of the argument. |
| optionalValue | `boolean` | no | Make argument optional. |
| variadic | `boolean` | no | Make arguments variadic. |
| list | `boolean` | no | Split argument by `separator`. |
| separator | `string` | no | List separator. Defaults to `,` |

## Custom type processing

```typescript
import { parseFlags, IFlagOptions, IFlagArgument } from 'https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags.ts';

parseFlags( Deno.args, {
    parse: ( type: string, option: IFlagOptions, arg: IFlagArgument, nextValue: string ) => {
        switch ( type ) {
            case 'float':
                if ( isNaN( nextValue as any ) ) {
                    throw new Error( `Option --${ option.name } must be of type number but got: ${ nextValue }` );
                }
                return parseFloat( nextValue );
            default:
                throw new Error( `Unknown type: ${ type }` );
        }
    }
} );
```

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)
