flags/README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Cliffy ❯ Flags </h1>

<p align="center" class="badges-container">
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3ATest">
    <img alt="Build status" src="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=master" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Version" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github&color=blue&label=latest" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/labels/module%3Aflags">
    <img alt="issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/c4spar/deno-cliffy/module:flags?label=issues&logo=github&color=yellow">
  </a>
  <a href="https://deno.land/">
    <img alt="Deno version" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-^1.2.0-blue?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://doc.deno.land/https/deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts">
    <img alt="doc" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-doc-yellow?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/nktwtG">
    <img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/join-chat-blue?logo=discord&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3Aci">
    <img alt="Licence" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://nest.land/package/cliffy">
    <img src="https://nest.land/badge.svg" alt="nest.land badge">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b> Command line arguments parser for <a href="https://deno.land/">Deno</a></b></br>
  <sub>>_ Used by cliffy's <a href="../../command/">command</a> module</sub>
</p>

## ❯ Content

- [Install](#-install)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [Options](#-options)
- [Custom type processing](#-custom-type-processing)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [License](#-license)

## ❯ Install

This module can be imported directly from the repo and from following
registries.

Deno Registry

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy@<version>/flags/mod.ts";
```

Nest Registry

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://x.nest.land/cliffy@<version>/flags/mod.ts";
```

Github

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/<version>/flags/mod.ts";
```

## ❯ Usage

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

console.log(parseFlags(Deno.args));
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/flags.ts -a foo -b bar
{ flags: { a: "foo", b: "bar" }, unknown: [], literal: [] }
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/flags.ts -x 3 -y.z -n5 -abc --beep=boop foo bar baz --deno.land -- --cliffy
{
  flags: {
    x: "3",
    y: { z: true },
    n: "5",
    a: true,
    b: true,
    c: true,
    beep: "boop",
    deno: { land: true }
  },
  unknown: [ "foo", "bar", "baz" ],
  literal: [ "--cliffy" ]
}
```

### With Options

```typescript
import {
  OptionType,
  parseFlags,
} from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

const result = parseFlags(Deno.args, {
  allowEmpty: true,
  stopEarly: true,
  flags: [{
    name: "help",
    aliases: ["h"],
    // a standalone option cannot be combined with other options
    standalone: true,
  }, {
    name: "verbose",
    aliases: ["v"],
    // allow to define this option multiple times on the command line
    collect: true,
    // make --verbose incremental: turn value into an number and increase the value for each --verbose option
    value: (val: boolean, previous = 0) => val ? previous + 1 : 0,
  }, {
    name: "debug",
    aliases: ["d"],
    type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
    optionalValue: true,
  }, {
    name: "silent",
    aliases: ["s"],
  }, {
    name: "amount",
    aliases: ["n"],
    type: OptionType.NUMBER,
    requiredValue: true,
  }, {
    name: "file",
    aliases: ["f"],
    type: OptionType.STRING,
    // file cannot be combined with stdin option
    conflicts: ["stdin"],
  }, {
    name: "stdin",
    aliases: ["i"],
    // stdin cannot be combined with file option
    conflicts: ["file"],
  }],
});

console.log(result);
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/options.ts -vvv -n5 -f ./example.ts -d 1 -s foo bar baz --beep -- --boop
{
  flags: { verbose: 3, amount: 5, file: "./example.ts", debug: true, silent: true },
  unknown: [ "foo", "bar", "baz", "--beep" ],
  literal: [ "--boop" ]
}
```

### Error handling

You can catch command validation errors with the `ValidationError` class. A
validation error is thrown when an invalid command is invoked by the user.

```typescript
import {
  parseFlags,
  ValidationError,
} from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

try {
  const flags = parseFlags(Deno.args, {
    flags: [{
      name: "debug",
    }],
  });
  console.log(flags);
} catch (error) {
  // Command validation error.
  if (error instanceof ValidationError) {
    console.log("[VALIDATION_ERROR] %s", error.message);
    Deno.exit(1);
  }
  // General error or invalid configuration.
  throw error;
}
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/error_handling.ts -d
[VALIDATION_ERROR] Unknown option "-d". Did you mean option "--debug"?
```

## ❯ Options

### parseFlags Options

| Param      |       Type       | Required | Description                                                                                    |
| ---------- | :--------------: | :------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| allowEmpty |    `boolean`     |    No    | Allow no arguments. Defaults to `false`                                                        |
| stopEarly  |    `boolean`     |    No    | If enabled, all values starting from the first non option argument will be added to `unknown`. |
| flags      | `IFlagOptions[]` |    No    | Array of flag options.                                                                         |
| parse      |    `function`    |    No    | Custom type parser.                                                                            |

### Flag Options

| Param      |                 Type                  | Required | Description                                                                                               |
| ---------- | :-----------------------------------: | :------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name       |               `string`                |   Yes    | The name of the option.                                                                                   |
| args       |           `IFlagArgument[]`           |    No    | An Array of argument options.                                                                             |
| aliases    |              `string[]`               |    No    | Array of option alias's.                                                                                  |
| standalone |               `boolean`               |    No    | Cannot be combined with other options.                                                                    |
| default    |                 `any`                 |    No    | Default option value.                                                                                     |
| required   |               `boolean`               |    No    | Mark option as required and throw an error if the option is missing.                                      |
| depends    |              `string[]`               |    No    | Array of option names that depends on this option.                                                        |
| conflicts  |              `string[]`               |    No    | Array of option names that conflicts with this option.                                                    |
| collect    |               `boolean`               |    No    | Allow to call this option multiple times and add each value to an array which will be returned as result. |
| value      | `( val: any, previous?: any ) => any` |    No    | Custom value processing.                                                                                  |

### Argument options

| Param         |          Type          | Required | Description                     |
| ------------- | :--------------------: | :------: | ------------------------------- |
| type          | `OptionType \| string` |    no    | Type of the argument.           |
| optionalValue |       `boolean`        |    no    | Make argument optional.         |
| requiredValue |       `boolean`        |    no    | Make argument required.         |
| variadic      |       `boolean`        |    no    | Make arguments variadic.        |
| list          |       `boolean`        |    no    | Split argument by `separator`.  |
| separator     |        `string`        |    no    | List separator. Defaults to `,` |

### OptionType

- `OptionType.STRING`

- `OptionType.NUMBER`

- `OptionType.BOOLEAN`

## ❯ Custom type processing

```typescript
import { ITypeInfo, parseFlags } from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

parseFlags(Deno.args, {
  flags: [{
    name: "foo",
    type: "float",
  }],
  parse: ({ label, name, value, type }: ITypeInfo) => {
    switch (type) {
      case "float":
        if (isNaN(Number(value))) {
          throw new Error(
            `${label} "${name}" must be of type "${type}", but got "${value}".`,
          );
        }
        return parseFloat(value);
      default:
        throw new Error(`Unknown type "${type}".`);
    }
  },
});
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/custom_option_processing.ts --foo 1.2
{ flags: { foo: 1.2 }, unknown: [], literal: [] }
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/custom_option_processing.ts --foo abc
error: Uncaught Error: Option "--foo" must be of type "float", but got "abc".
```

## ❯ Contributing

Any kind of contribution is welcome! Please take a look at the
[contributing guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## ❯ License

[MIT](../LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat(flags): add option callback method

flags/README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Cliffy ❯ Flags </h1>

<p align="center" class="badges-container">
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3ATest">
    <img alt="Build status" src="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=master" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/releases">
    <img alt="Version" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github&color=blue&label=latest" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/labels/module%3Aflags">
    <img alt="issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/c4spar/deno-cliffy/module:flags?label=issues&logo=github&color=yellow">
  </a>
  <a href="https://deno.land/">
    <img alt="Deno version" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-^1.2.0-blue?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://doc.deno.land/https/deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts">
    <img alt="doc" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/deno-doc-yellow?logo=deno" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/nktwtG">
    <img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/join-chat-blue?logo=discord&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/actions?query=workflow%3Aci">
    <img alt="Licence" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/c4spar/deno-cliffy?logo=github" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://nest.land/package/cliffy">
    <img src="https://nest.land/badge.svg" alt="nest.land badge">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b> Command line arguments parser for <a href="https://deno.land/">Deno</a></b></br>
  <sub>>_ Used by cliffy's <a href="../../command/">command</a> module</sub>
</p>

## ❯ Content

- [Install](#-install)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [Options](#-options)
- [Custom type processing](#-custom-type-processing)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [License](#-license)

## ❯ Install

This module can be imported directly from the repo and from following
registries.

Deno Registry

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy@<version>/flags/mod.ts";
```

Nest Registry

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://x.nest.land/cliffy@<version>/flags/mod.ts";
```

Github

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/c4spar/deno-cliffy/<version>/flags/mod.ts";
```

## ❯ Usage

```typescript
import { parseFlags } from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

console.log(parseFlags(Deno.args));
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/flags.ts -a foo -b bar
{ flags: { a: "foo", b: "bar" }, unknown: [], literal: [] }
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/flags.ts -x 3 -y.z -n5 -abc --beep=boop foo bar baz --deno.land -- --cliffy
{
  flags: {
    x: "3",
    y: { z: true },
    n: "5",
    a: true,
    b: true,
    c: true,
    beep: "boop",
    deno: { land: true }
  },
  unknown: [ "foo", "bar", "baz" ],
  literal: [ "--cliffy" ]
}
```

### With Options

```typescript
import {
  OptionType,
  parseFlags,
} from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

const result = parseFlags(Deno.args, {
  allowEmpty: true,
  stopEarly: true,
  flags: [{
    name: "help",
    aliases: ["h"],
    // a standalone option cannot be combined with other options
    standalone: true,
  }, {
    name: "verbose",
    aliases: ["v"],
    // allow to define this option multiple times on the command line
    collect: true,
    // make --verbose incremental: turn value into an number and increase the value for each --verbose option
    value: (val: boolean, previous = 0) => val ? previous + 1 : 0,
  }, {
    name: "debug",
    aliases: ["d"],
    type: OptionType.BOOLEAN,
    optionalValue: true,
  }, {
    name: "silent",
    aliases: ["s"],
  }, {
    name: "amount",
    aliases: ["n"],
    type: OptionType.NUMBER,
    requiredValue: true,
  }, {
    name: "file",
    aliases: ["f"],
    type: OptionType.STRING,
    // file cannot be combined with stdin option
    conflicts: ["stdin"],
  }, {
    name: "stdin",
    aliases: ["i"],
    // stdin cannot be combined with file option
    conflicts: ["file"],
  }],
});

console.log(result);
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/options.ts -vvv -n5 -f ./example.ts -d 1 -s foo bar baz --beep -- --boop
{
  flags: { verbose: 3, amount: 5, file: "./example.ts", debug: true, silent: true },
  unknown: [ "foo", "bar", "baz", "--beep" ],
  literal: [ "--boop" ]
}
```

### Error handling

You can catch command validation errors with the `ValidationError` class. A
validation error is thrown when an invalid command is invoked by the user.

```typescript
import {
  parseFlags,
  ValidationError,
} from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

try {
  const flags = parseFlags(Deno.args, {
    flags: [{
      name: "debug",
    }],
  });
  console.log(flags);
} catch (error) {
  // Command validation error.
  if (error instanceof ValidationError) {
    console.log("[VALIDATION_ERROR] %s", error.message);
    Deno.exit(1);
  }
  // General error or invalid configuration.
  throw error;
}
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/error_handling.ts -d
[VALIDATION_ERROR] Unknown option "-d". Did you mean option "--debug"?
```

## ❯ Options

### parseFlags Options

| Param      |                       Type                        | Required | Description                                                                                    |
| ---------- | :-----------------------------------------------: | :------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| allowEmpty |                     `boolean`                     |    No    | Allow no arguments. Defaults to `false`                                                        |
| stopEarly  |                     `boolean`                     |    No    | If enabled, all values starting from the first non option argument will be added to `unknown`. |
| flags      |                 `IFlagOptions[]`                  |    No    | Array of flag options.                                                                         |
| parse      |                    `function`                     |    No    | Custom type parser.                                                                            |
| option     | `(option: IFlagOptions, value?: unknown) => void` |    No    | A callback function that will be called for every parsed option.                               |

### Flag Options

| Param      |                 Type                  | Required | Description                                                                                               |
| ---------- | :-----------------------------------: | :------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name       |               `string`                |   Yes    | The name of the option.                                                                                   |
| args       |           `IFlagArgument[]`           |    No    | An Array of argument options.                                                                             |
| aliases    |              `string[]`               |    No    | Array of option alias's.                                                                                  |
| standalone |               `boolean`               |    No    | Cannot be combined with other options.                                                                    |
| default    |                 `any`                 |    No    | Default option value.                                                                                     |
| required   |               `boolean`               |    No    | Mark option as required and throw an error if the option is missing.                                      |
| depends    |              `string[]`               |    No    | Array of option names that depends on this option.                                                        |
| conflicts  |              `string[]`               |    No    | Array of option names that conflicts with this option.                                                    |
| collect    |               `boolean`               |    No    | Allow to call this option multiple times and add each value to an array which will be returned as result. |
| value      | `( val: any, previous?: any ) => any` |    No    | Custom value processing.                                                                                  |

### Argument options

| Param         |          Type          | Required | Description                     |
| ------------- | :--------------------: | :------: | ------------------------------- |
| type          | `OptionType \| string` |    no    | Type of the argument.           |
| optionalValue |       `boolean`        |    no    | Make argument optional.         |
| requiredValue |       `boolean`        |    no    | Make argument required.         |
| variadic      |       `boolean`        |    no    | Make arguments variadic.        |
| list          |       `boolean`        |    no    | Split argument by `separator`.  |
| separator     |        `string`        |    no    | List separator. Defaults to `,` |

### OptionType

- `OptionType.STRING`

- `OptionType.NUMBER`

- `OptionType.BOOLEAN`

## ❯ Custom type processing

```typescript
import { ITypeInfo, parseFlags } from "https://deno.land/x/cliffy/flags/mod.ts";

parseFlags(Deno.args, {
  flags: [{
    name: "foo",
    type: "float",
  }],
  parse: ({ label, name, value, type }: ITypeInfo) => {
    switch (type) {
      case "float":
        if (isNaN(Number(value))) {
          throw new Error(
            `${label} "${name}" must be of type "${type}", but got "${value}".`,
          );
        }
        return parseFloat(value);
      default:
        throw new Error(`Unknown type "${type}".`);
    }
  },
});
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/custom_option_processing.ts --foo 1.2
{ flags: { foo: 1.2 }, unknown: [], literal: [] }
```

```
$ deno run https://deno.land/x/cliffy/examples/flags/custom_option_processing.ts --foo abc
error: Uncaught Error: Option "--foo" must be of type "float", but got "abc".
```

## ❯ Contributing

Any kind of contribution is welcome! Please take a look at the
[contributing guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## ❯ License

[MIT](../LICENSE)
